I agree and disagree.
John is saying that the batters efforts will result in 4 more wins then losses.
While you are probably correct that 400% does not mean 4 more wins then losses, it means something.
I would rather have a player who increased my teams chances of winning by 1% in each of 400 PAs then I would a player who increased my chances of winning by .5% in each of 400 PAs.
Thus, there appears to me to be an obvious positive association between John's statistic and winning games.
Thus, before you disregard this stat, it appears to me that further study must go into what sort of relationship there is.
The only problem here is an insistance that these number mean exactly how many wins the team has.
First, we are using averages over many seasons and applying them to one game.
Second, remember some players performance take away from the chance of you winning.
That is a player who gets an out gets a "negative probability" in most cases.
Thus, I'm not sure in any given game when you add up all the numbers for a team who won that they will add up to 1 in that game.
Sometimes, they will add up to more then one sometime, less than one.
Also, the pitchers' bad performances (giving up 6 runs) may have given them a large negative percentage for that game.
Also, any batter that pulled an 0-4 night would give large negatives.
No, but really only because you have a smaller sample size.
I would think however, that the number of runs you score in the first inning would be just as good as a prediction as how many runs you score in the last inning.
And, realize something else a closer usually comes in in a close situation, not a blow out.
It is hard to argue that any runs that a closer gives up in a game have equal importance to those given up in the first inning.
Look, a closer giving up runs often means a team will lose many games.
On, the other hand a starter who gives up runs often still leaves his team a chance to win.
The offence has many more outs to do something about.
But, I am not saying all late inning situations are equally important either.
If I am down 8 runs in the ninth, it really does not matter how many runs my pitcher gives up in the ninth.